My name is Brooke.
I'm an engineer on the Xcode team.
This session is about how you can
most efficiently work with Xcode.
Xcode supports a wide
variety of working styles.
When we were designing Xcode,
we knew that different engineers would
want to use their tools differently.
So in this session,
we'd like to show you three
different ways to use Xcode.
First,
I'll show you my single window workflow.
After that,
Kelly will come up and show you her
workflow using tabs and behaviors.
And finally, Chris will come up and show
you his keyboard-centric
workflow using multiple windows.
All right, so let's look at how
I use a single window.
Xcode tries to automatically show you
just what you need at the time for
whatever your current activity is.
and But sometimes you'll want
to show or hide different
parts of the window yourself,
so it's convenient to know
the keyboard shortcuts.
After we look at that,
we'll see how you can find and
open content in the editor.
And then we'll look at some
source editor tips and tricks.
So let's see a demo.
So I've got a bug to fix,
but the first thing I notice here is
that I've got the utility area open,
and I know I'm not going to need
it because I'm just going to
be doing some source editing.
So I can hide that with
this button up here,
but there's also a keyboard
shortcut I like to use,
Command-Option-0.
And if I want even more
space for the editor,
I can hide the navigator
area with Command 0.
Let's bring that back for now.
So in my bug,
I've got a crash in the app delegate.
So I'm just going to click down here,
type app del,
and there's my app delegate.
Actually, my crash report says what
method I'm crashing in.
So instead,
I'm going to use OpenQuickly to
bring that up with Command Shift O.
Type in the name of that method,
save context.
Open quickly is really powerful
and actually kind of forgiving.
It'll find files or symbols both
in my project or in the SDK.
And often I don't even need to type the
name of what I'm looking for correctly.
So now that it's found the
method I'm looking for,
I'm just going to hit return.
and it's shown me the
symbol that I'm looking for.
So what you just saw is an example
of what we call navigation.
Navigation is the act of opening
a document or a specific location
of a document in the editor.
So, on to my bug.
So I see in here it looks
like we're calling abort.
That's probably where we're crashing.
And it must be from the save error.
And I've even got a comment here telling
me that I need to fix the bug here.
Okay, well...
I wonder if NSManager object
context has another method,
another save method that might
deal with this error for me.
So I'm going to jump to the definition.
of the Save method in the
Assistant Editor by holding down Command,
Option, and clicking on it.
So now I can, so that's brought up,
and it's managed object context
in the Assistant Editor,
so I can use this as a reference
while I'm still looking at my
primary document that I'm working on.
This is what we call modified navigation.
Normally, if I were to command-click
on the saved method,
it would open it up
in the primary editor.
But in this case, by holding down Option,
I jumped to Definition in
the Assistant Editor instead.
So, looking around in an
S-managed object context,
I see no, there's no other save method,
so...
That's not going to help me.
But there's something else I could try.
Maybe I could,
instead of fixing the error here,
I might want to,
I might try pushing the error
onto the callers instead.
So if I click on the
Assistant Editor category pop-up here,
I see one of the new categories in the
latest version of Xcode is Callers.
I'll select that, and I see there are
three different callers,
and they're actually all right here,
and none of them are doing
any other error handling,
so that's not going to help me either.
Alright, so I'm done with the
Assistant Editor for now.
I'm just going to put that
away with Command-Return.
Alright, so clearly I'm not going to fix
this bug in front of all of you.
Instead,
I'm just going to make this
comment a to-do to make it
a little bit more obvious.
You can see when I did that,
it made-- it promoted that
comment into the function pop-up.
As you know,
the function pop-up will show you
all the symbols in your document,
but you can also annotate the
function pop-up with to-dos,
pragmas like this one here,
or fix-me comments like
this one down here.
Another feature of the Function
Popup you might not know about
is you can actually search in it.
So if I type "application," it'll show me
just the matching entries in the popup.
and I can just click to
navigate to one of those.
Another way I like to use
the function pop-up is
With the keyboard shortcut, I can use,
I can just press
Control 6 to bring it up,
arrow up to the method I'm looking for,
and hit return, and I'm there.
Actually,
I remember earlier I was in this
file and I saw there's a really messy
list of imports at the top here,
and I'd like to clean that up.
And I'm going to do this using
Mac OS 10's tech services.
Mac OS X has powerful tech services that,
and since Xcode is, Xcode,
like any Cocoa application,
can take advantage of these for free.
The best part about it is that
you can create them yourself,
and I'd like to show you how
right now using Automator.
So all I need to do is click on
Automator to create a new document.
Let me zoom out.
I'm going to click on
Service and then Choose.
This is going to create a new tech
service that takes a selection
from any application and replaces
the selection with its output.
I'm going to add a run shell script
that's going to run a bash script for me.
It's going to sort and unique the text.
And I'm just going to
call that sort and unique.
and then I'll just quit out of Automator.
Now I can,
I've got my text selected in Xcode,
I can control click on it to
bring up the context menu,
I'll select my service and as
you can see it sorted in ForB.
So I can keep my imports
nice and organized,
and I don't really have
to care too much about it.
The last thing I'd like to show
you is how you can get back to
documents you've already found.
I could manually manage the files
I'm working on with Windows or Tabs.
On the other hand,
I've already implicitly told Xcode
I'm interested in those files
by opening and modifying them.
Thankfully,
Xcode has a few ways to automatically
surface the files in my working set.
Under the Related Items pop-up,
there's Recent Files,
which will show me the
next 10 files I've been in.
There's also History,
which will show me not only the files,
but all the places I've
been to in those files.
And I can just click this or
hit back a few times until
I get to what I'm looking for.
But my favorite way to get back
to files I've already been in
is with the Project Navigator.
Most of the time,
I work with this open using
the Source Control filter.
So I'll click that now.
And now the project navigator is showing
me just the files that I modified.
I like to start off any task this way.
As I make changes,
files are added to the list.
This view helps keep me focused
on just the bug I'm working on.
And the best part is,
now I've got one-click access
to all the files that I'm most
likely to navigate to next.
So you just saw that you can
easily organize Xcode's user
interface with keyboard shortcuts.
You saw a few ways to find and
navigate to your documents,
and some source editor tips and tricks,
and how you can get back to documents
you've already been in through some
automatic working set features in Xcode.
Now I'd like to invite up
Kelly Keenan to show you her
workflow using tabs and behaviors.
Thanks, Brooke.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Kelly Keenan.
And I would love to talk to
you about three things today.
The first is I'd like to talk
about how I use task-based tabs
in my workflow in my daily use.
The second is how I use behaviors
in conjunction with those tabs.
And the third are some more editing
tips and tricks that you all can
use while working with Xcode.
And the best way to
show all these things,
of course, is with a demo.
My favorite way to work, actually,
is unlike a lot of my coworkers,
is to just use a 13-inch
MacBook Air on my couch.
And so I use a one-window feature a lot.
And I used to work this way,
where I used a lot of dynamic
user interface changes,
where I moved things in
and out all the time.
But I found that I really need
something a little more static,
a little more concrete.
And so I started using tabs.
So this is the way I usually work,
which is I have a bunch
of different tabs here.
Now you can create new tabs
by holding down Command-T.
That'll give you a new tab,
and you'll see one popped up on the end,
and it's exactly like
the tab I just came from.
If I ever want to close a tab,
I use Command-W.
And to navigate between tabs,
I can use Command-Shift-Square Bracket,
otherwise known as Command-Curly Brace.
And I can use that to easily
move between all of my tabs.
Now, the first tab that I have here
is one that I use a lot to work
specifically with either storyboards
or with my core data model.
And you'll see I close most everything.
I keep the utility window open so
that I have the inspector in the
library so I can edit my objects
and drag objects out of the library.
And I use the tips and tricks
that Brooke showed you about
opening and closing assistants
and things like that to be able
to look at code when I need it,
but make it go away whenever
I don't want it there.
Now, one of the things that I like about
tabs is that I can keep each of the
tasks that I do in a separate area,
in a separate tab.
Only, when I go and look at
the name of these tabs...
You see that they're named after the
file that's open in the primary editor.
Now what I would really like to see
here is what task I'm doing in this tab.
And so I can edit my tab name
by just double-clicking on it.
And now I can call this a design tab.
So now, whenever I change files in here,
that tab name is going to stay the same,
and I know it's where I go to edit my
storyboards and my core data models.
Now let's go to the next tab.
Again, we can command-shift,
square bracket to get over.
And this is where I do most
of my source code editing.
I usually start off
with one tab like this,
and I'll sometimes open
two or three of them,
depending on how many
different files I'm looking at.
Now I hide the navigators
in the utility window,
and I keep open the assistant editor,
because a lot of times I want to
look at some other code that's
similar to what I'm working on,
or related in some way.
And so I use that jump bar a
lot to move in between there.
Now, since this is where I edit my code,
I'm going to rename this tab "Edit."
And then let's go to the next tab.
So this tab I use just for finding,
and I'm going to call it find right away.
And so, for example,
I use a lot of multi-file finds,
and I see I have an author property here,
and I'm just going to search for that.
And now I can easily look
between all of the different
files that that selection is in.
and I are all the time knowing that if
I go back to my edit and my design tabs,
they're exactly where I left them.
But I could use this tab to just
search everywhere throughout the
project and not have to worry that
I've lost my place in what I'm doing.
So while we're in the find tab,
I have a couple tips and tricks
I want to show you about finding.
Now, I think you're probably all
familiar with using Command F,
and that will open a find bar at
the top to do an in-file find.
Now,
the trick I'd like to show you is that
you can make a selection in your editor,
and now if you hit Command-E,
it actually takes that selection
and puts it into the find pasteboard
without opening the find bar.
And now I can Command-G through my file
and just search for that selection.
I do this all the time for finding,
because I don't want
to open the find bar.
It's great, but if all I'm doing is
looking for one little thing,
I can do that quickly.
Command-E, Command-G.
So now I want to be able to change
these three instances of display.
So I want to make a selection here,
and one of the things I can do is
I can double-click on this curly brace,
and it will select that
whole block of code,
which is kind of handy.
Now, you might have seen earlier,
if I do Command-F to open the find bar,
I can change it to replace.
Now if we scroll in over here,
I want to change the word
display with the word show.
Now my options are find all, replace,
well, replace all,
replace and replace and find.
But we have a new one,
which is if I hold down the option key,
it'll change to in selection.
I'm going to scroll back
out before I do that,
and when I do hold down option,
in selection, and now it changes show in
the three instances that were
inside of that selection.
If I command G,
it still exists in the rest of the file,
just not in that selection anymore.
So those are the tips and tricks
I want to show you about finding.
And so let's look at our next tab.
Now in this last tab,
this is the tab that I use to
review what I've been working on.
And to do that, I use what Brooke showed,
where I keep the file
navigator open and I...oops.
And I keep the source control filter
turned on so that all I see are the files
that I personally have edited recently.
And I also use the comparison editor.
By doing this, I can quickly,
if somebody comes into my office
and wants to do a code review,
I just switch to this tab.
I'm like, "Oh yeah,
here's all the stuff I've
changed already." So let's
name this one our review tab.
Now, there's two other tabs
that I keep normally open,
and I'd like to show you how to use
behaviors to dynamically open these tabs.
So,
behaviors lives in Xcode's preferences,
and we can open that using Command-comma.
We can click on Behaviors,
and the idea of behaviors
is that on the left,
your left, we have triggers,
and on the right is where you can set
up actions or UI changes that will
happen when those triggers happen.
So in this case, I want to look at
Build Generates New Issues.
And when a build generates a new issue,
like a warning or an error,
I want it to open a new tab.
Well, I want it to show a tab named,
and in this case,
I want to show it a tab named Build.
Now what's going to happen is,
if that tab already exists,
like it does in my project at the moment,
whenever a new issue or
warning happens when building,
it's going to open that existing tab.
Now if that tab doesn't exist already,
it will create a new tab and open
that up when a build issue appears.
So you could also set a
bunch of these other options,
and Chris is going to show you
how to do that in a little bit.
But the other trigger I want to
change is when the run pauses,
I want to show a tab named Debug.
And this way,
if I hit something like a breakpoint,
it's going to show me a debug window.
So let's try that.
Now I can Command-W to close this window.
And we're going to use
Command-R to build and run.
And earlier, before the demo,
I put an error in here.
So that you'll notice that
we opened up the Build tab.
It shows the Issue Navigator.
I can click on that issue.
And right down here, it says, oh,
I needed to put an underscore in there.
So now I can build and run again.
And this time,
it hits the breakpoint I put in earlier
and opens up the debug tab so that
I'm all ready to do my debugging.
And the great thing about using
task-based tabs is at any point
I can go back to the other tabs and
they're exactly the way I left them.
So let's then go back to the edit
tab and I have some editing tips
and tricks I want to show you.
We can stop that from running first.
Okay, so back in the editor.
Now, Brooke showed you
Open Quickly for navigating,
and I want to show you an additional
thing that you can use with Open Quickly.
So you type Command-Shift-O to
open quickly.
I can type in my root,
look for root view controller.
Now, if I press Return right now,
it's going to open in the primary editor.
And if I press Option-Navigation,
so if I Option-Return,
it's going to open the assistant editor.
And there's another option that
you might not know about yet,
which is if I hold down
Option-Shift-Return,
and I are going to show you how
to use the navigation chooser.
This allows me to use either the
mouse or keyboard to determine
where I want this file to open.
I can use the arrow keys to just arrow
around and I can open into a new tab,
I can open into the existing editors
or I can add a new assistant editor.
If I hit return here,
it opens a new assistant editor for me.
So that's what I wanted to
show you about navigation.
Now there's two other main topics
I want to talk about in editing.
And to do those,
I'm going to close the Assistant Editor,
or in this case,
just open the Primary Editor using
Command-Return.
Now I want to talk about code
completion and code snippets.
And it's hard to really
talk about them separately,
so we're going to talk
about them at the same time.
Now this is a core data project,
and I see that I have a title
and an author property here.
And I'd like to check both of them
to make sure that they aren't empty.
And so I'd like to validate them.
And to do that,
I'm going to go look to see
if there's a code snippet
that will help me to do this.
If you look through some of the menus,
you'll find some very specific
commands that you can use.
And in this case,
there's commands that open
very specific libraries,
even.
So I can use Control Option Command 2,
and that actually opens the code
snippet library specifically.
Now you'll see we have a bunch
of code snippets available to us.
And I can start typing "valid"
and I see that I have a
Core Data Property Validation
method that I can use.
Now I'm going to make
a little space for it.
And all I have to do is drag
it out of the code snippet
library and drop it in here.
Now, as part of this code snippet,
there's two placeholders,
and I can move between the
placeholders using Tab or Shift Tab.
When I'm ready to accept the placeholder,
I just start typing.
And in this case,
I need a capitalized property name.
And the first one I want
to validate is title.
So I'm going to type in "title."
and then tab to the validation code.
Now I need to write some code.
This is going to be fun because I need
to show you code completion and if
any of you have done big demos before,
this is where things go wrong.
So the next thing I want to do is I want
to know if value ref is equal to nil,
then I'm going to have some problems.
I need to write out an error.
Well, actually, if it's not nil,
I don't remember.
Okay, let's just go along with it.
I know what I'm supposed to write.
Let's just write the correct thing.
Okay, so if I start typing if,
what you see is the code
completion window shows up.
Now,
there's a couple things you can do here.
One is I could just press
Return and accept it,
but that wouldn't make much for a demo.
So, what I want to tell you about
is if you want it to go away,
you can type Escape.
If you want it to reappear,
you can use control space.
And I could accept it, or in this case,
sometimes you're just typing along
and you just want to ignore it.
We'll go right ahead.
Just keep typing.
Nobody's going to stop you.
Now what I want to show you is
that code completion has given me a
suggestion to remind me that I need
to put an ending parentheses here.
We're going to accept
it a little bit later,
but I want to show you that if
you do remove what you have,
it's going to go away.
If you type again,
it's going to come back.
And I can now just keep typing
and you'll see code completion
offers the parameter that I have.
So to accept this,
all I have to do is hit tab.
And I can continue on my merry way
and try not to type crazy stuff.
So now I want to check to
see if it's an empty string.
So I'm going to type in value ref,
tab again to accept that, and is,
let's type the right thing today, equal,
okay.
So the next thing
I want to show you is...
Partial completions.
So, let's move the cursor
out of the way a little.
You'll see that there's
a little gray underline.
And so what that shows is
if I type tab right now,
it's just going to partially
complete to the end of that word.
So it's just going to
partially complete equal.
So I can hit tab,
and then I can keep typing.
So if I want to, tab again,
and then string,
and then I can tab to finally
finish what I was doing.
So, now I can type in that I want
to check for the empty string.
And here I can tab to accept the
square bracket that was there.
And I could tab to accept this
ending parenthesis as well.
However,
I want to show you another trick,
which is usually if you're ending
an expression for an if statement,
the next thing you're going to type
after this is an open curly brace.
So we have a little trick,
and I can just type it right now.
So if I just type the open curly brace,
surprise,
it gives me the ending parenthesis and
the open curly brace in the right spot.
Yeah, you can clap for that, that's good.
It's exciting, I like it.
So now if I hit return,
I can continue on.
And so now what I need to do
is I need to check to see,
well, I want an error in this case
because value ref was nil and
value ref or value ref was,
you know, an empty string.
So now I got to check to see
if there's an error before
I can put an error in there.
So I got to make sure
it's not equal to null.
So I can start typing if.
In this case, I'm just going to return.
And I want to know if out
error is not equal to null.
Or do I want it is equal to null?
Who knows?
It's yes or no.
Somebody tell me, quick.
Keep going?
Okay, good.
Just checking.
I should have brought my notes.
So this next part, well, yeah,
this next part,
part of what I want you to
watch as we're finishing this
up is the number of characters,
like the characters I'm actually typing
versus how much code gets written.
Because, you know,
I want to go through this
next part fairly quickly.
I am going to show you
a couple other things,
but let's just start typing.
We're going to make a dictionary,
and one of the things I want you
to notice here is that we've added
Quick Help into the code completion.
So this will help you pick between
the suggestions that you have.
And so I'm going to create a dictionary,
going to call it User Info.
I have to type that whole thing because,
sadly, Xcode doesn't know what I want
to call my variable names.
And now, oh, I'm going to use one of
these cool new literals.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Like the dictionary literal thing.
Now I've got to remember this hard thing.
NSLocalize, localize, I can, oh,
I don't want, description key, oh,
that looks good.
Awesome.
And I'm going to call it, title is empty.
Okay, I need, oh, I need this.
Okay.
Yeah, semicolon.
And I want to put this into OutError.
Tab equals NSError.
That looks good.
Error with domain.
Oh, sweet.
NSCoco.
Yeah, that one.
NSManagedObject something valid.
Validation error.
Sweet.
I am so grateful for this right now.
User info.
And the last thing I need to do is
set validation result equal to no.
Okay, the only way I could possibly get
through this today is thanks to code
completion and my code snippets,
because there's no way I was going
to remember NSLocalize dictionary
key right in front of you.
Description key, yeah,
see I can even say it right.
So that's one of the powerful
things about code completion is
really being able to get the right,
the things you're looking for
quickly and easily and accurately.
I also want to validate author.
And so I'm going to have you
watch me do this all again.
Just kidding.
What I really want to do is
I could just copy and paste this,
but it's probably likely I'm going
to use the same bit of code over
and over again in other projects.
So what I'm going to do
now is drag this code,
if I had more space here,
into my code snippet library.
And now at the bottom,
I have this little code snippet.
And if we double-click on it,
Let's scroll in here a little
bit so you guys can see this.
So this is the code that's going to be
entered into my project if I drag it in.
And I want one of those
cool placeholders,
so I'm going to have to edit this.
Edit.
Okay.
And I want title to be a placeholder
like we saw in those other things.
So in this case,
let's scroll this out a little bit.
I'm going to use angle
brackets and hash marks.
So, angle brackets and hash marks
delineate my placeholder.
And here I'm going to remind
myself I need a property name.
So I can put that in there.
I'm going to copy this and put it
down here in my description key,
because I want that same name there.
And now back at the top,
in my code snippet library,
I don't want to just leave
it as my code snippet,
so I'm going to call
it Property Validation.
The key thing here is using
the completion shortcut.
In this case,
I'm just going to call it PropVal.
Awesome.
So, hit done.
Ooh, go the other way.
Sorry if I'm making you all seasick.
Hit return.
Now,
here I can just start typing prop val.
Code completion knows about
my new code snippet already.
I hit return.
It shows up here.
I have a property name.
I type in author.
I hit tab.
I hit author again.
Author.
And I'm done.
So, that's how you can make
your own code snippet.
Thank you for dealing
with my typing on stage.
These are the things that we just
went over in the last few minutes.
I showed you how to use task-based
tabs as part of your workflow and
set up a tab-based environment.
I showed you how to use behaviors
so that you could dynamically open
those tabs when you need them.
And I showed you some new
editing tips and tricks.
Hopefully they were new to you.
One is using the navigation chooser to be
able to decide where to open your files.
Another is code completion
and how to type your code
fast and accurately using it.
And the third was snippets and how
to make your own code snippets.
So I'd like to invite Chris Hanson
up here to talk to you about multiple
window workflows and keyboard shortcuts.
So I'm Chris Hanson.
I'm also an Xcode engineer.
And I really like to use
a multi-window workflow.
That lets me bring up auxiliary
content around what I'm working on and
keep it sort of organized spatially,
while keeping my primary and
my assistant editor focused on
the task on which I'm working.
I'd also like to show you how you can
really drive Xcode from the keyboard.
That lets you get around your
code really fast and work
with Xcode sort of naturally,
where you just think about what
you want to do with your code and
your fingers know how to do it.
And how almost everything in Xcode
from the keyboard is configurable,
so you can really optimize it
for what you would like to do.
So I'm just going to
go straight into demo,
and I'm just going to bring
up my checkout of the project
that we've all been working on.
Now the first thing I'd like
to show you is how to actually
get to new windows in Xcode.
It's pretty simple.
You just double-click on a
file and Xcode will open it
in a new editor-style window.
And this is great both
for just general editing,
especially if, say,
you resize your main window a little bit,
resize that down,
and I can arrange some of my
other windows around here.
I can open up, say,
a data model and put it
in a nice big window,
independent of the main
window that I'm working in.
And that really lets me sort
of organize my work spatially,
because now I know I just need to go over
here to get to my root view controller.
Over here, I have my app delegate.
Down here, I have my data model.
And I can get around these windows both
using the mouse and using the keyboard.
Because on OS X,
we have a standard keyboard
shortcut for going between windows,
just like we have one for
going between applications.
So to go between applications,
you would use Command-Tab.
and Command-Shift-Tab.
Well, to go between windows,
you use Command and the Backquote
key right above the Tab key.
So it's really easy to remember
and it really leverages how your
fingers kind of want to work
already as you're working with OS X.
So I'm going to hold down the Command key
and press Backquote and that rotates
me forwards through my list of windows.
And it does it in spatial order.
Now, if I add in the shift key,
I go the opposite direction.
But sometimes I know exactly
what window I want to be in.
I know, for example,
if I'm editing some code
over here in my app delegate,
okay, now I want to make a change
in my root view controller,
and I know it's just over there.
I don't necessarily want to
use the mouse to do that.
So I can bring up the navigation
chooser just by pressing Command J.
And then,
while holding down the command key,
I can use the arrow keys to,
instead of targeting a
new area in this window,
switch which window I'm targeting
in this navigation chooser.
So I'm going to pick the window that
contains my root view controller,
hit return,
and my insertion point is now over here.
And to get back, I can just bring up
the navigation chooser,
switch back, and there I am.
And that makes it really easy to
not only use multiple windows,
but also get between
them as you're editing,
so you can make changes in several
of them sort of at the same time.
Now, one other thing that we've added
in the latest version of Xcode
is the ability for behaviors
to not just target new tabs,
but also target new windows.
So to do that, well,
let's say I want to bring up a console
window anytime I run my application.
What I'm going to do is go straight to my
Behaviors menu and choose Edit Behaviors.
And that's a nice shortcut to the
Behaviors tab of Xcode's preferences.
And I'm going to edit
the Run Starts trigger,
so that any time Xcode
starts running something,
It's going to show a tab named Console,
but it's not going to show
that tab in the active window.
Instead, it's going to show it
in a separate window.
I'm going to make sure that
it's hiding the Navigator,
that it's showing the Debugger
with just the Console view,
and that it's hiding some other
areas of the window that I don't
think I need in that Console window,
in particular, the big Editor area.
So now that I've set this up,
I can just press Command-R to run.
Xcode builds my application,
starts running it in the simulator,
and you can see it brought
up this console window,
and I got some log output
in it from my application.
I love this because I like to
work on multiple monitors at once,
and I just like to throw my console
window over on a different one.
In fact, for right now,
I'm just going to resize it down
here and keep it sort of down below.
Now,
as we've been talking about behaviors,
there are lots of triggers
that are built into Xcode.
But you can also create custom behaviors.
If I just edit behaviors here,
one thing I like to do is keep my editing
UI when I'm working on source code
organized kind of like Kelly showed.
But like I said, I like to use multiple
windows rather than tabs.
So what I'd like to do is have a simple
way to just arrange Xcode's UI to be
exactly how I like it while I'm editing.
What I'm going to do is press
this plus button at the bottom
of the list of behaviors,
and that lets me create a new one.
I'm just going to call this
behavior source editing.
And this command symbol here,
this cloverleaf, means that I can assign
it a key shortcut.
So I'm going to assign it F13
and click away to accept it.
And that means any time I want to
edit sources the way that I like to,
I just have to press F13 and whatever
I'm looking at in Xcode will reconfigure
itself to be the way that I want it.
And to do that, I'm going to just hide
the project navigator.
I'm going to make it hide any debugger,
hide any utilities.
I'm going to leave the toolbar alone
in whatever window I'm looking at.
And I'm going to make sure that the
editor is showing as an assistant editor.
So now, if I'm working on
Core Data Books App Delegate here,
and I want it to be arranged
like I like an editor arranged,
I just have to press F13 and
Xcode's UI rearranges itself.
For the next part of the demo though,
I'm actually going to bring back
the Navigator with Command-0,
and I'm going to switch back to just
the primary editor with Command-Return.
And most of what you're going
to do in Xcode is editing.
You're going to be editing your project,
you're going to be
editing your data models,
you're going to be editing
your user interfaces,
and most of all,
you're going to be editing source code.
So I've got a few more editing
tips and tricks for you.
And to start with,
as an OS X application,
we support all of the standard
OS X text editing gestures.
So for example,
you can arrow around in your code,
you can add in the modifier keys like
command and option to change how far
you're jumping by using the arrow keys.
You can throw in the shift
key to extend your selection,
all the usual stuff.
But in addition to the max
standard editing gestures,
OS X supports a bunch of Emacs
keyboard shortcuts as well.
So if I want to go to the next line,
I can press control N, you know,
because I'm kind of an
Emacs user from way back.
My fingers are just used to that.
I want to go to the next line,
I try to hit control N,
and Xcode doesn't beep at me,
it just says, oh,
you're using Emacs keys,
I'm going to go to the next line.
I can use control B and control F to
go backwards and forwards in my text.
I can even use keys like control
E and control A to go to the end
and the beginning of the line.
All those kinds of Emacs gestures.
But we don't just support
cursor navigation.
We actually have support for advanced
Emacs concepts like the kill ring.
And this isn't something
that Xcode adds specifically.
It's actually global throughout
OS X because it's part of Cocoa.
And if you're interested in
a little bit more of how this
Cocoa text editing works,
the Cocoa Event Handling Guide has
some detailed information
on that from an API level.
Now, as you're editing,
you're probably not going
to be thinking in terms of,
"I want to change this sequence
of characters to that sequence
of characters." Instead,
you're probably going to be
thinking at a more semantic level,
"I want to change this
identifier to that."
So let's say in my root
view controller here,
down at the bottom, oops,
I switched in the wrong window.
Okay.
Down at the bottom of
root view controller,
I have a method called add view
controller did finish with save.
And the second parameter to
that method is just called save.
Well, I think did save might
be a better name for it.
So of course,
I could use find and replace
to replace all of those.
But we actually have a feature
called edit all in scope.
So if I put my insertion
point in that identifier,
Xcode gives us a nice little
underline under that identifier and
under any other matching identifiers
that are in the same scope.
That indicates that I can edit
that identifier in scope and Xcode
will automatically propagate my
changes to all the other instances.
Love it.
So to do that,
I could choose it from a menu,
but I'm just going to
press Command Control E.
Whoops,
I pressed Command Control W instead.
I'll go back to that.
There we are.
And Xcode remembered my place in my file.
I'll zoom in again.
And this time I will
press Command-Control-E.
And now you can see that underline
became a box around the save identifier.
And we have a grayed out box behind
the other instance of that identifier.
So I'm just going to
start typing did save,
and I'm going to control D and
type S to make it all nice
and properly capitalized.
And you can see that not only did the
one that I'm actively editing change,
but so did the other instance of
this identifier in this method.
And it doesn't really matter how
many instances of it we have.
It's not just limited to one.
It could be five, it could be ten.
It'll do all of the identifiers.
Now, as I'm working,
I probably also want to reference
other code and documentation.
Brooke was working on a bug
earlier where he was seeing
a crash in the app delegate,
and he's asked me to take a look at it.
Maybe I might have an idea of what to do.
So he said it was in
the SaveChanges method.
I'm just going to use
OpenQuickly to get there.
It's actually called SaveContext.
And I'm just going to
use my counterparts.
Oh, actually, this is up at the top,
so I'm going to use my pop-up
to get down to the definition of
this method and take a look at it.
Well, the issue is basically to do
with NSManagedObjectContext
returning an error from saving.
So what I'm going to do is take a look
at some documentation on the save method.
Now, I could do this by holding
down the Option key,
my cursor changes to a question mark,
and I can just click on that
identifier and I get quick help.
And new in the latest versions of Xcode,
quick help doesn't just show an abstract,
it also shows the parameters and return
values of a lot of framework methods.
And I can click out of
that to put it away,
but I'm often just
editing with my keyboard.
I don't necessarily want to have
to use the mouse just to bring
up some quick documentation.
So what I can do is press
Command-Control-Question Mark,
or Shift-Slash as you
type a question mark,
and that brings up the quick help pop-up.
It appears to have brought
it up in the wrong place,
but I think it was matching
my cursor position,
so I'll just try that again.
Command-Control-Shift-Slash.
Yeah.
So when I bring this
up with the keyboard,
I can just press Escape to dismiss it,
and my insertion point
is back where I left it.
So I don't actually have to take
my hands off the keyboard just
to see some quick documentation
about what I'm working with.
And that includes things around my code.
Now,
one other thing I might want to do is
jump to a definition of another method.
Brooke showed you how you
can just command click.
to replace your primary editor with
the contents of what you've jumped to,
and how you can command option
click to open it in a new assistant.
Well, I like to use multiple windows,
so what I'd really like to do is
have that kind of gesture open what
I'm jumping to in a new window.
I'm going to put the
assistant editor away,
and if I say I want to see
the definition of NSError,
I can command double-click it,
and it just opens in a new window for me.
It's that double-click gesture again.
But again, sometimes I don't want to
take my hands off the keyboard
to do that sort of thing.
So, well,
to bring it up in the Assistant Editor,
I would just type
Command-Control-Option-J,
and that goes into the Assistant Editor.
But my Assistant Editor is often
looking at something that's already
related to what I'm working on.
So I'd really like to bring
this up in a separate window.
And the way I can do that is to change
one of Xcode's preferences under the
General pane for how navigation behaves.
Brooke talked about modified navigation,
and this lets you tweak
it to match your workflow.
Here,
I'm going to say optional navigation,
which is the navigation that
happens when I press the Option key.
Instead of using an Assistant Editor,
should use a separate window.
Now, if I put this Assistant Editor away
with Command-Return,
And I press Command-Control-Option-J to
jump to definition.
I get the definition of
NSError in a separate window.
I can use my page up and page
down keys to scroll through it,
and then I can press Command-W to
put that window away.
And my primary editor
is exactly as I left it.
Now these are all just
Xcode's default key bindings.
Let's say you really would rather
use F5 for running your application.
Almost all of the commands in Xcode
are customizable in terms of how
you invoke them from the keyboard.
And you do that in Xcode's
key bindings preferences.
And you see,
we show all sorts of commands here.
You can see the complete
list of all of our commands,
just our menu commands,
or our text commands that
you invoke from the keyboard.
You can also see which commands
have already been customized,
and any commands that have
conflicts either within Xcode or
with system-level key bindings.
I'm just going to switch back to all,
and I'm going to look for
some running-related command
that I can bind to F5.
I'm just going to type in run here.
And I see that I have
run in the product menu.
Well, to change that key binding,
I just double-click it,
and I'll press my new key, F5,
and I'll click out to
accept that binding.
Now,
I have some text down at the bottom here
that says that it's already bound to
something and my new binding won't take
effect until the conflict is resolved.
And they also have this little
icon here indicating that there's
a conflict with my key bindings.
I can see that in the conflict button.
And looking through here,
there are just these two major conflicts.
I need to resolve that
before F5 will do anything.
And since I'm not doing
much OpenGL work right now,
I'm just going to highlight the
OpenGL command that's bound to
F5 and press delete to unbind it.
And that leaves F5
bound to my run command.
And now,
if I close the prefs and press F5,
Xcode asks me if I want to stop
the app that's already running.
It builds my app, it runs it,
my console window comes up
exactly where I left it,
and everything is good.
Now let's say I want to bind a text
editing command like "end." I don't want
"end" to scroll to the end of the file,
which is the default for the Mac.
I actually want it to move my insertion
point to the end of the current line,
because that's just how I prefer to work.
Once again,
I can just bring up Xcode's key
bindings preferences using Command,
Command,
Comma to bring up the Prefs window.
And I'll start typing End.
You can see we have a lot
of different commands whose
name includes the text End.
So if I just start scrolling down here,
at the bottom,
I have Scroll to End of Document.
And it's bound to a
key with a symbol here.
Now if I zoom in on that,
it's a little downward
rightward facing arrow.
And it's highlighted.
It turns out this is the
symbol for the End key that
will appear in menus and such.
And it's highlighted because Xcode
didn't just search for commands that
contain the term End in their text.
It also searched on the name of the key.
So if I want to see all of the
commands that involve arrow keys,
I can actually type in Arrow.
And I can see all of the
commands that involve left,
right, up, or down arrow keys.
If I want to see commands
that involve the Control key,
I can type Control.
And that'll show me all commands
that use Control in their binding,
which include a lot of those
Emacs commands that I like to use.
I can even stack these, for example,
by adding in Command as well.
And that shows me all of the
commands that involve both the
Control key and the Command key.
Xcode knows to And these terms together.
And that's it.
Thank you.
Now, Xcode isn't the only thing that lets
you customize your keyboard shortcuts.
OS X itself also lets you do
that using the keyboard pane
in the system preferences.
The first thing I like to do,
because I do use a lot
of those Emacs commands,
as you can see if you've
been watching what I type,
is fix my control key.
I prefer the control key to be where caps
lock is on most keyboards these days.
It just makes for a lot less distance
to reach when invoking those commands.
I can do that just in the
modifier keys section.
And now I can make my caps lock
key a control key and those Emacs
commands are a lot more comfortable.
I can also assign keyboard
shortcuts and change them for
a lot of the OS X defaults.
And I can even assign keyboard shortcuts
to things like services that I create.
So Brooke added this
sort and unique service.
If I wanted,
I could actually bind it to a
keyboard shortcut and then anywhere
in OS X that I have text selected,
I could press the keyboard
equivalent for that service and
have that text sorted and unique.
And like I said,
the Koko event handling guide
talks a lot about how the key
binding mechanism in OS X works,
at both the programmatic
level and from a user level.
Now I'm going to take
us back to our slides.
And well, what did we talk about?
I showed you how you can use
multiple windows to really
organize your work spatially.
So you can have some main
text that you're working with,
some main tasks,
and then the auxiliary content
that you're using with that task
around what you're working with.
And I showed you how you
can really drive Xcode,
both for text editing and for
getting around from the keyboard.
That lets you efficiently edit your
text and build up muscle memory or
leverage the muscle memory that you
already have by modifying Xcode's
key bindings to what you prefer.
Now we have some related
sessions on Xcode this week,
such as working with schemes
and projects in Xcode tomorrow,
source control management in
Xcode on Thursday in Nob Hill,
and debugging in Xcode also on Thursday.
If you'd like any more
information about Xcode,
you can always contact our
developer tools evangelist,
Michael Jurowicz.
You can check out our Xcode 4
user guide in the documentation,
and if you'd like to take a look at the
sample code that we've been demoing with,
it's called Core Data Books,
and it's just available on
Apple's sample code site.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.